# Multi-Muon-Analysis
Code and information regarding our NOvA multi-muon analysis in the far detector's cosmic pulser stream.

# GENERAL WORKFLOW AND OVERVIEW
The data this analysis looks at is from the far detectors cosmic pulser stream. This is data from a stream that collects data for 550μs bursts, happening ten times a second. The goal of this analysis is to classify multi-muon showers in this stream. This is difficult since this stream collects data from all detector activity for 550μs, so you must filter out everything that is not a multi-muon shower. To do this I designed an algorithm that clusters the hits created by cosmictracker based on timing. This code takes in ntuples that are created using the CosmicNtuple_module.cc module found in Alec Habig's repository. For a reason unknown to me his original ntuple modules don't work on current cosmic pulser 
artdaq files, so to create new ntuples you must use a modified version found in this repository. After you have ntuples you run the algorithm (or a hopefully improved version) over the ntuples to spit out which events are multi-muon events (more on event convention later.) Once you have a list of multi-muon events you can plot interesting parameters like the distribution of multi-muon showers based on data and time, and eventually this can be compared to temperature data as was done in other analyses. The scope of this repository is creating ntuple files, a rough algorithm for finding multi-muons based on timing (in python and on nova gpvms), skeleton code for extending this to angular distribution, and other miscellaneous code. 

